TINYWALL LOCALIZATION INSTRUCTIONS

This file contains instruction on localizing (translating) TinyWall into
various spoken languages. Please follow the instructions carefully.

-------------------------

Tools needed:
1. TinyWall installed
2. Zeta Resource Editor, www.zeta-resource-editor.com
3. (optional) WinRes.exe from the Microsoft Windows SDK


GENERAL NOTES
-------------------------

TinyWall's language resources are grouped into several XML files. Each file 
in the "Forms" directory contains the localized strings of one specific window 
TinyWall can show. For example, ConnectionsForm.resx (and all its language 
variants) contain the strings (texts) that the user can read when opening the 
Connections window of TinyWall. In addition to the "form" files, additional
text can also be found in Exceptions.resx and Messages.resx.
Exceptions.resx contains localized names of firewall exception names, while
Messages.resx contains all kinds of text.

When creating a new language, each file must be named in a specific way, in that
a language code is added between the base filename and the resx extension.
For example, if the original (untranslated) file is Messages.resx, the German
variant must be called Messages.de.resx. Replace "de" by the 2-letter country 
code of your language. For a list of valid country codes, see the "Culture Name" 
column in http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/goglobal/bb896001.aspx .

Please do not use sub-languages. Select a generic variant of your language 
without a country specialization. For example, do not use "de-AT", just use 
simply "de".

If a translation for a string does not exist in a specific language, TinyWall
will automatically load and use the default (English) version of the string. 
That is, even if a translation misses some text, something will always be shown 
to the user.


BASIC TRANSLATION
-------------------------

1. Download and install the Zeta Resource Editor. You can get it for free 
(it is a freeware) from www.zeta-resource-editor.com . If you prefer not to 
install anything, an install-less portable version can also be downloaded from 
the same website.

2. Start the resource editor you've just downloaded.

3. Open the pre-made project file "TinyWall-Localization.zreproj" in the 
Resources folder of TinyWall's localization pack. The left pane shows will show
each resource file with all the language variants grouped into a single node.
Double click a node and the right pane will show the strings in multiple columns,
one language for in each column.

4. Leave the project open, but close all opened language/resource file tabs in 
right pane.

5. Right click the first resource file in the left pane, and select "Create 
new file for language". In the new dialog, leave the "Reference language" at 
English and set your new language in the "New language" field. Confirm with OK.

6. Open the resource file by double-clicking and translate all strings. Save.

7. Repeat steps 4-6 for all other resource files.


QUALITY CONTROL AND GUI CUSTOMIZATIONS
-------------------------

Basically, you are done with the translation. However, you might want to check 
some of your results and make slight modifications in the GUI. The most 
probable reason is that because translated strings often have a different length
than the original English version, some text might not fit onto the spaces, 
boxes and buttons of TinyWall. Customizing the GUI allows you to make slight
adjustments, like correcting a button's size and position so that the new text 
fits perfectly.

1. Download the "Microsoft Windows SDK for Windows 7 and .NET Framework 4"
installer. (http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/confirmation.aspx?id=8279)
This is an online installer that will download components on the go. It accesses
the internet using a temporarily extracted executable, so set TinyWall into
"Allow outgoing" or "Learning" mode for the duration of the setup.

2. When prompted for the components to install, the only one you need is
.NET Development -> Tools.

3. When installation finishes, launch WinRes.exe. Look for it in a subfolder of
"C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\" (for example
"C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0A\Bin"

4. At this point, make sure TinyWall is installed. If it is not,
then install it.

5. Open a .resx file located in Resources\Forms. This will show you a simplified
view of the selected TinyWall window. Check that the translations are correct 
and that all text fit correctly. If necessary, change size and position of 
controls. Text can also be updated here by editing the "Text" properties. Please
do not make unnecessary changes.

6. When saving, in the language selection
window, select a generic variant of your language without a country 
specialization. For example, do not select "German (Austria)", but select
the generic "German" language. In File Mode, make sure the 
"Visual Studio File Mode-VSFM" is selected.

7. Repeat steps 5-6 for all other forms in Resources\Forms.

-------------------------

When all is done, zip up and send me all the files to tinywall @ pados.hu.

THANK YOU FOR YOUR TRANSLATION!

